Hi Ryan,

There are a few typos in the Q for gods exercises and some questions I want to replace. Some of the questions are fine though.  Below is a roundup on the exercises, which ones I think you should/should not cover, where are are typos etc.

It's important that you should only have the attendees attempt an exercise if you are comfortable with the exercise and solution. 

I have a word doc version of the exercise solutions which I have attached. I copied the solutions into q scripts for your convenience. They are in the attached zip file. Below is my advice/pointers on the Q for gods exercises/solutions.


IPC - 

	You can do Exercise A if you like, it's very straightforward. Solution is on folder IPC Exercise A

	Skip Exercise B, I don't like it and some of the behaviour it discusses is either depracated or else OS specific. 		Also I 	don't have the script it mentions called ExKill.q

	Exercise C is a simpler version of IPC2.q and IPC3.q which you will be asking the attendees to do anyway so skip 		this one.

Attributes -

	solution script is att.q
	You can do this exercise. The code at the start of the script is quite terse though. We can go through it if needed
	

Importing data -
	You can do questions 1-2. Solution script is provided. I'd ignore questions 3 and 4 as you don't have Microsoft 	Access I believe.Most people don't care about intereacting with Access in my experience anyway.


Advanced Web Interface -
	I would totally skip over this exercise if I were you. Getting into the nitty gritty of .z.ph I don't think is 			worth the effort for almost all attendees.
	Solution script is provided but take note, it is throwing an error for me when I try to run it.
	
q.k/q.q -
	skip

Q shortcuts -
	skip

Each Prior, Scan, Over - 
	Cover, but make sure you are comfortable with these attributes and exercise first. Solution script provided.


Joins lj/ij -
	Same as Joins exercise A from Q Funds. I made a copy of Joins_ExA.q and called it Joins_lj_ij.q.
	
	typo in q4 - one too many values in exchange column.
	
	typo in q6 - drop one ":" from definition of tab0. Although this typo doesn't cause any error as it creates a view instead.
	
	q7 involves the use of a step function (`s#`Name xasc phoneNum). See my sample script step_function.q for more 	examples on step functions. The alternative way of solving this question is to use an aj. Joins_ExA.q uses both 	approaches.


,’ (join each) -
	easy, might as well do it. Solution present.


Pivoting - 
	I think this exercise is too difficult for attendees but we can go through it if you like.Partital Solution 	script provided


Table Arithmetic - 
	Definitely do these exercises. Not too difficult and common to Q Funds course. Solution file is provided.


Bucketing - 
	Do this exercise, it's not too difficult. Solution file provided.Only thing interesting is the use of the bin 		function from q11 down.
	Let me know if you  want to go over this function. An alternative solution would be a step function (see 			step_function.q).
	Take note of a couple fo typos. Point these out (and apologise on my behalf!) to the attendees before they 			attempt an exercise with any typos.
	Typos: q13 - should say "Repeat question 12, not repeat question 2" 
	q14 - should say "buckets as question 12, not buckets as question 1" 



Correlation - 
	Probably would'nt bother but up to you. solution provided.

Functional/Dynamic Queries - 
	You could have the attendees do the first few so they get an idea and some experience. Solution script provided but we are currently missing a script needed for quesitons 10 onwards. Not a problem if you cover the previous questions though. I'll try to find the script. 


Advanced Language Interface - 
	Probably not. Only if you are comfortable with the material and there is an interest from the attendees. Proablably
	best to concentrate on Java where your experience lies. Solution provided.

Importing Foreign Libraries - 
	I believe you will be demonstrating your Visual Studio project so up to you. Solution provided

Tables On Disk - 
	Important area but unfortunatley we don't have the reffered file exDb.q currently. Let me see what I can do about that over the next few days. You won't be covering that topic until Wednesday.



Logging and Checkpointing - 
	No. You told mw this was a topic you hadn't eally done and these questions are pretty advanced.



