1 - Problem is that the file 2009.01.02/quote/asize has only 99 entries whereas all other files in that directory have 100 entries.
When database loaded, q doesn't hit an error until one tries to access this date.So you don't instantly know something is wrong. 

2 possible solutions - 
a. use set and get to add 1 more entry to the file 2009.01.02/quote/asize. Probably a null but colud be any number you want.
b. use set and get to load in each of the other files in the directory and delete the last element from each file. 
 

2 - added a folder called "2009.01.01 Backup" in the partition directory.
q doesn't like this. Solution: Remove folder

3 - deleted sym file. All syms show as enumeration values. Solution:
Regenerate sym file.

4 - There is a type problem with the file "bsize" from "quote" on 2009.01.04.It should contain ints but it instead contains strings. An error will occur if we attempt arithmetic with this column. Eg: select bsize+asize from quote
Solution: Use get and recast to int and set down again.

5 - included a script with the main directory of the db which includes
the "\\" command so that when loaded up q runs the script and exits.
Solution: Remove "\\" from script

6. Add a q script with an error in it. Filled the script with some simple arithmetic functions that call each other. b:{[x;y]:`x;x-a[y;x];} is the fault function - hidden a symbol return before the function does anything - hopefully they'll see the semi-colon and think "oh it's just returning a null" and then get increasingly frustrated when that doesn't fix it. Solution: Fix function or delete script.

7. Have a flat file table at the top level with the same name as
one of the tables in the partitions. Q reads the partitions first so the trade flat table is ignored. Solition: If you want the data in this flat table to be loaded with this database, rename it.

8. Have a missing column in one of the partitions. 2009.01.03/quote has had the ask column renamed to ask_old - as if someone was fiddling with it and kept a backup. No problem observed until you attempt to view quotes for this date. Solution: rename to ask

9. Have a table which doesn't exist in the first partition. Means table doesn't show up. Solution: Write down an empty trade table for 2009.01.01

10. Similar to above, but make the first partition only have a subset of
the columns. Trade in 2009.01.01 lacks a size column. . Solution: Write down an empty (nulls) size column (use set)

11. Script redefines trade to be an empty table. Solution: Remove the offending line or script